README.md, before:

# Laravel Developer Learning Resources

- Table of Contents
  - [Clean Code, Code Style, Conventions](#clean-code-code-style-conventions)
  - [Security](#security)
  - [Test-Driven Development](#test-driven-development)
  - [Code Quality, Code Profiler Tools](#code-quality-code-profiler-tools)
  - [Productivity](#productivity)
  - [Package Development](#package-development)
  - [Videos](#videos)
  - [Laravel Conferences Videos](#laravel-conferences-videos)
  - [Books](#books)
  - [Laravel Admin Tools](#laravel-admin-tools)
  - [Awesome List](#awesome-list)
  - [Tutorial, News, Inspiration](#tutorial-news-inspiration)

## Clean Code, Code Style, Conventions

- Clean Code PHP [https://github.com/jupeter/clean-code-php](https://github.com/jupeter/clean-code-php)
- Automatic code formatting for Laravel projects [https://github.com/matt-allan/laravel-code-style](https://github.com/matt-allan/laravel-code-style)
- DesignPatternsPHP [https://designpatternsphp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/](https://designpatternsphp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- PHP Best Practices [https://phpbestpractices.org/](https://phpbestpractices.org)
- Clean Code Concepts Adapted for PHP [https://laravel-news.com/clean-code-php-guide](https://laravel-news.com/clean-code-php-guide)
- Laravel — Cleaner Code [https://medium.com/swlh/laravel-cleaner-code-46203ca3ee4d](https://medium.com/swlh/laravel-cleaner-code-46203ca3ee4d)
- BaseCode is a field guide containing real-world practices to help you write code that's less complex and more readable. [https://basecodefieldguide.com](https://basecodefieldguide.com)
- Laravel Best Practices [https://github.com/alexeymezenin/laravel-best-practices](https://github.com/alexeymezenin/laravel-best-practices)

## Security

- The Laravel Security Checklist [https://www.sqreen.com/resources/laravel-security-checklist](https://www.sqreen.com/resources/laravel-security-checklist)
- Survive The Deep End: PHP Security [https://phpsecurity.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html](https://phpsecurity.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)
- The 2018 Guide to Building Secure PHP Software [https://paragonie.com/blog/2017/12/2018-guide-building-secure-php-software](https://paragonie.com/blog/2017/12/2018-guide-building-secure-php-software)

## Test-Driven Development

- Requirement, BDD, TDD Tools
  - **PhpSpec** is a php toolset to drive emergent design by specification. [http://www.phpspec.net/en/stable/](http://www.phpspec.net/en/stable/)
  - **Behat** is a php framework for autotesting your business expectations. [http://behat.org/en/latest/quick_start.html](http://behat.org/en/latest/quick_start.html)
  - **PHPUnit** [https://phpunit.de/](https://phpunit.de/)
  - **Codeception** [https://codeception.com/](https://codeception.com/)
  - PEST - PHPUnit is great! Pest just provides a different API to create tests. [https://pestphp.com/](https://pestphp.com/)
- Online Course
  - A comprehensive step-by-step video course on designing robust Laravel applications with TDD. [https://course.testdrivenlaravel.com/](https://course.testdrivenlaravel.com/)
  - From no tests to confidently tested [https://confidentlaravel.com/](https://confidentlaravel.com/)
  - Test Driven Laravel [https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGAbkfdxo1MwOS9xjG3O3z1y](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGAbkfdxo1MwOS9xjG3O3z1y)

## Code Quality, Code Profiler Tools

- [https://edgedesigncz.github.io/phpqa/](https://edgedesigncz.github.io/phpqa/)
- [https://phpqa.io/](https://phpqa.io/)
- [https://thevaluable.dev/code-quality-check-tools-php/](https://thevaluable.dev/code-quality-check-tools-php/)
- [https://github.com/jakzal/phpqa](https://github.com/jakzal/phpqa)
- Low-overhead sampling profiler for PHP 7 [https://github.com/adsr/phpspy](https://github.com/adsr/phpspy)
- Static Analysis [https://github.com/phan/phan](https://github.com/phan/phan)
  - DEMO [https://phan.github.io/demo/](https://phan.github.io/demo/)
- PHP Depedency DEMO [http://pdep.lerdorf.com/](http://pdep.lerdorf.com/)
- [https://github.com/sensiolabs-de/deptrac](https://github.com/sensiolabs-de/deptrac)
- PHPStan - PHP Static Analysis Tool [https://github.com/phpstan/phpstan](https://github.com/phpstan/phpstan)
- [https://psalm.dev/docs/](https://psalm.dev/docs/)
- [https://github.com/kalessil/phpinspectionsea](https://github.com/kalessil/phpinspectionsea)
- [https://infection.github.io/guide/usage.html#Using-with-PHPUnit](https://infection.github.io/guide/usage.html#Using-with-PHPUnit)

## Productivity

- Tinkerwell [https://tinkerwell.app/?ref=marcel](https://tinkerwell.app/?ref=marcel)
- VSCode Pro by Ahmad Awais [https://vscode.pro/](https://vscode.pro/)
- 7 Essential PhpStorm tips & tricks to boost your productivity [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EwL_1wbg-rQ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EwL_1wbg-rQ) 
- Laravel API Doc generator [https://laravel-apidoc-generator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/](https://laravel-apidoc-generator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). This cool package, can generate Postman collection
- Laravel Tests Generator [https://laravelshift.com/laravel-test-generator](https://laravelshift.com/laravel-test-generator)
- Sonarlint - Fix issues before they exist [https://www.sonarlint.org/](https://www.sonarlint.org/)
- Php Inspections - A Static Code Analysis tool for PHP distributed as a PhpStorm / IdeaUltimate plugin. [https://kalessil.github.io/phpinspectionsea/docs/getting-started.html](https://kalessil.github.io/phpinspectionsea/docs/getting-started.html)

## Package Development

- PHP Package Development [https://phppackagedevelopment.com/](https://phppackagedevelopment.com/)
- Laravel Package Development Tutorial by John Braun [https://laravelpackage.com](https://laravelpackage.com)
- Laravel Package Development Tutorial by Larashout [https://www.larashout.com/tag/laravel-package-development](https://www.larashout.com/tag/laravel-package-development)
- Laravel Package Development using Laravel 5.8 by Coder's Tape
  - [https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGBQ_aqz_hXDBch1aAA-lmgu](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGBQ_aqz_hXDBch1aAA-lmgu)
  - [https://coderstape.com/series/1-laravel-package-development](https://coderstape.com/series/1-laravel-package-development)

## Videos

- UI Design for Developer [https://refactoringui.com/](https://refactoringui.com/)
- Getting Git [https://gettinggit.com/](https://gettinggit.com/)
- Never Write Loop Again [https://adamwathan.me/refactoring-to-collections/](https://adamwathan.me/refactoring-to-collections/)
- Official Laravel Online Course [https://laracasts.com/](https://laracasts.com/)
- Docker for PHP Developers [https://bitpress.io/docker-for-php-developers/](https://bitpress.io/docker-for-php-developers/)
- Shipping Docker [https://courses.serversforhackers.com/shipping-docker?coupon=sdholidays2019](https://courses.serversforhackers.com/shipping-docker?coupon=sdholidays2019)
- Scaling Laravel [https://courses.serversforhackers.com/scaling-laravel?coupon=slholidays2019#buy](https://courses.serversforhackers.com/scaling-laravel?coupon=slholidays2019#buy)
- MySQL Backup [https://courses.serversforhackers.com/mysql-backups?coupon=mbholidays2019](https://courses.serversforhackers.com/mysql-backups?coupon=mbholidays2019)
- Fully-Automated Deployment [https://deploy.serversforhackers.com/](https://deploy.serversforhackers.com/)
- Laravel 6 Advanced [https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGD5pN3-Y66YDtxJCYuGumFO](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGD5pN3-Y66YDtxJCYuGumFO)
- Useful Laravel Packages [https://codewithdre.com/useful-laravel-packages](https://codewithdre.com/useful-laravel-packages)
- Advanced Laravel: 14 Topics and Links to Learn Them [https://laraveldaily.com/advanced-laravel-20-topics-and-links-to-learn-them/](https://laraveldaily.com/advanced-laravel-20-topics-and-links-to-learn-them/)
- Laravel Online Conference [https://laracon.net](https://laracon.net)
- Build a Chatbot [https://course.buildachatbot.io/?ref=landing-page](https://course.buildachatbot.io/?ref=landing-page)

## Laravel Conferences Videos

- [Laracon EU 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qkIsTtIcTBE&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoB-CIVsiQt0WU8WcYrb5eoe)
- [Laracon EU 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QaIGN_cTcc8&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoCYhxlU3OJ5bOGhcKtDMkcN)
- [Laracon EU 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6KsiDUFH24g&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoA9SIsuFy0UWL8PZD1G3YFZ)
- [Laracon EU 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8LdpsSJIUto&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoCMkOxqe82hOC8tgthqhHCN)
- [Laracon EU 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JPxhnRh1Rr8&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoBFZgG2juDXF6LiikpQeLx2)
- [Laracon EU 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xwsdUVd5UT8&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoC64wnqvm6v1R5dsuAV-MpS)
- [Laracon EU 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kKGGVGiq2y8&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoDhWZ6YJW5B79CDoHWZwDN1)
- [Laracon US 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ZIuy8YcerI&list=PL-yJve--iT5o9fH_cRY0u6P751pcF59GK)
- [Laracon US 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iYCy6bo7omk&list=PL-yJve--iT5oaLQA6OI8TWLVSOBP1qhs3)
- [Laracon US 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eyftAR5ilo&list=PL-yJve--iT5oM2LgF37VXsBb8Os4ZulIc)
- [Laracon US 2019](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL-yJve--iT5qZzp0VzYaPA7ZohLl6tSdp)
- [Laracon AU 2018 ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UyaejTqR3Tc&list=PLEkJYA4gJb7_FKspNTgrve7FUb3A1dT3y)
- [Laracon AU 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A7JEfsUeey0&list=PLEkJYA4gJb78lIOKjZ0tJ9rWszT6uCTJH)

## Books

|Cover|Title|
|---|:---:|
| ![Laravel: Up & Running: A Framework for Building Modern PHP Apps](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/81Qcj1W-2CL._AC_UY218_.jpg) | Laravel: Up & Running: A Framework for Building Modern PHP Apps |
| ![Build APIs You Won't Hate: Everyone and their dog wants an API, so you should probably learn how to build them](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/41A-D5UDB+L._AC_UY218_.jpg) | Build APIs You Won't Hate: Everyone and their dog wants an API, so you should probably learn how to build them|
| ![Architecture of complex web applications: With examples in Laravel(PHP)](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/41C9jaRLYTL._AC_UY218_.jpg) | Architecture of complex web applications: With examples in Laravel(PHP) |
| ![Domain-Driven Laravel: Learn to Implement Domain-Driven Design Using Laravel](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/61jUZvCow9L._AC_UY218_.jpg) | Domain-Driven Laravel: Learn to Implement Domain-Driven Design Using Laravel |
| ![Kolaborasi Laravel dan Database PostgreSQL di Linux (Indonesian Edition)](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/41Au7Xp2dDL._AC_UY218_.jpg) | Kolaborasi Laravel dan Database PostgreSQL di Linux (Indonesian Edition) |
| <img src="https://d2sofvawe08yqg.cloudfront.net/phptherightway/hero?1549430989]" alt="PHP The Right Way" width=200 /> | PHP: The "Right" Way, Latest update: [https://phptherightway.com/](https://phptherightway.com/)|
| <img src="https://buku-laravel-vue.com/assets/img-optimized/books/book-mockup-laravel-1-min.png.webp?6.0" alt="Laravel 6 Book Indonesia" width=250 />| Laravel v6.0 - Panduan Untuk Menjadi Fullstack Developer [https://buku-laravel-vue.com/](https://buku-laravel-vue.com/) |
| <img src="https://phpunitexplained.com/img/ebook-cover.jpg" width=220 alt="PHPUnit Explained" /> | PHPUnit Explained - Everything you need to know about the leading test framework [https://phpunitexplained.com/](https://phpunitexplained.com/) |
| <img src="https://buildanapi.com/images/build-an-api-with-laravel-wacky-studio-cover.jpg" alt="Build API with Laravel" width=200 /> | Build an API with Laravel [https://buildanapi.com/](https://buildanapi.com/)|

## Laravel Admin Tools

- Voyager: The Missing Laravel Admin [https://voyager.devdojo.com/](https://voyager.devdojo.com/)
- LaraAdmin: Admin Panel + CRM [https://laraadmin.com/](https://laraadmin.com/)
- QuickAdmin: Package and Online Generator [https://github.com/LaravelDaily/quickadmin](https://github.com/LaravelDaily/quickadmin)
- Z-song / Laravel-admin [https://github.com/z-song/laravel-admin](https://github.com/z-song/laravel-admin)
- InfyOm Laravel Generator [https://labs.infyom.com/laravelgenerator/](https://labs.infyom.com/laravelgenerator/)
- AppzCoder: CRUD Generator + Admin Panel [https://github.com/appzcoder/crud-generator](https://github.com/appzcoder/crud-generator)
- Backpack for Laravel [https://backpackforlaravel.com/](https://backpackforlaravel.com/)
- SleepingOwl Admin [https://github.com/LaravelRUS/SleepingOwlAdmin](https://github.com/LaravelRUS/SleepingOwlAdmin)
- CrudBooster [https://crudbooster.com/](https://crudbooster.com/)
- Zofe / Rapyd-Laravel [https://github.com/zofe/rapyd-laravel](https://github.com/zofe/rapyd-laravel)
- Laravel CRUD – CMS – Sximo 5 LTS ($24) [https://codecanyon.net/item/laravel-crud-cms-sximo-5-lts/11893533](https://codecanyon.net/item/laravel-crud-cms-sximo-5-lts/11893533)
- Josh – Laravel Admin Template + Front End + CRUD ($25) [https://codecanyon.net/item/josh-laravel-admin-template-front-end-crud/8754542](https://codecanyon.net/item/josh-laravel-admin-template-front-end-crud/8754542)
- Admin Architect – Administration Framework for Laravel ($29) [https://codecanyon.net/item/admin-architect-administration-framework-for-laravel/13528564](https://codecanyon.net/item/admin-architect-administration-framework-for-laravel/13528564)
- Laravel Nova ($99) [https://nova.laravel.com/](https://nova.laravel.com/)

## Awesome List

- [https://github.com/chiraggude/awesome-laravel](https://github.com/chiraggude/awesome-laravel)
- [https://github.com/unnawut/awesome-laravel](https://github.com/unnawut/awesome-laravel)
- [https://github.com/GitIndonesia/awesome-indonesia-repo#laravel](https://github.com/GitIndonesia/awesome-indonesia-repo#laravel)
- [https://github.com/ziadoz/awesome-php](https://github.com/ziadoz/awesome-php)
- [https://github.com/fukuball/Awesome-Laravel-Education](https://github.com/fukuball/Awesome-Laravel-Education)

## Tutorial, News, Inspiration

- Laravel Deep Dive [https://divinglaravel.com/](https://divinglaravel.com/)
- Made With Laravel [https://madewithlaravel.com/](https://madewithlaravel.com/)
- Laravel News [https://laravel-news.com/](https://laravel-news.com/)
- PHP-CPP A C++ library for developing PHP extensions. [http://www.php-cpp.com/](http://www.php-cpp.com/)
- Chatbot Development using PHP [https://botman.io/](https://botman.io/)

Commit message:

add more information in TDD, Package Development and Videos

README.md, after:

# Laravel Developer Learning Resources

- Table of Contents
  - [Clean Code, Code Style, Conventions](#clean-code-code-style-conventions)
  - [Security](#security)
  - [Test-Driven Development](#test-driven-development)
  - [Code Quality, Code Profiler Tools](#code-quality-code-profiler-tools)
  - [Productivity](#productivity)
  - [Package Development](#package-development)
  - [Videos](#videos)
  - [Laravel Conferences Videos](#laravel-conferences-videos)
  - [Books](#books)
  - [Laravel Admin Tools](#laravel-admin-tools)
  - [Awesome List](#awesome-list)
  - [Tutorial, News, Inspiration](#tutorial-news-inspiration)

## Clean Code, Code Style, Conventions

- Clean Code PHP [https://github.com/jupeter/clean-code-php](https://github.com/jupeter/clean-code-php)
- Automatic code formatting for Laravel projects [https://github.com/matt-allan/laravel-code-style](https://github.com/matt-allan/laravel-code-style)
- DesignPatternsPHP [https://designpatternsphp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/](https://designpatternsphp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- PHP Best Practices [https://phpbestpractices.org/](https://phpbestpractices.org)
- Clean Code Concepts Adapted for PHP [https://laravel-news.com/clean-code-php-guide](https://laravel-news.com/clean-code-php-guide)
- Laravel — Cleaner Code [https://medium.com/swlh/laravel-cleaner-code-46203ca3ee4d](https://medium.com/swlh/laravel-cleaner-code-46203ca3ee4d)
- BaseCode is a field guide containing real-world practices to help you write code that's less complex and more readable. [https://basecodefieldguide.com](https://basecodefieldguide.com)
- Laravel Best Practices [https://github.com/alexeymezenin/laravel-best-practices](https://github.com/alexeymezenin/laravel-best-practices)
- Laravel & PHP Style Guide by Spatie [https://guidelines.spatie.be/code-style/laravel-php](https://guidelines.spatie.be/code-style/laravel-php) 

## Security

- The Laravel Security Checklist [https://www.sqreen.com/resources/laravel-security-checklist](https://www.sqreen.com/resources/laravel-security-checklist)
- Survive The Deep End: PHP Security [https://phpsecurity.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html](https://phpsecurity.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)
- The 2018 Guide to Building Secure PHP Software [https://paragonie.com/blog/2017/12/2018-guide-building-secure-php-software](https://paragonie.com/blog/2017/12/2018-guide-building-secure-php-software)

## Test-Driven Development

- Requirement, BDD, TDD Tools
  - **PhpSpec** is a php toolset to drive emergent design by specification. [http://www.phpspec.net/en/stable/](http://www.phpspec.net/en/stable/)
  - **Behat** is a php framework for autotesting your business expectations. [http://behat.org/en/latest/quick_start.html](http://behat.org/en/latest/quick_start.html)
  - **PHPUnit** [https://phpunit.de/](https://phpunit.de/)
  - **Codeception** [https://codeception.com/](https://codeception.com/)
  - PEST - PHPUnit is great! Pest just provides a different API to create tests. [https://pestphp.com/](https://pestphp.com/)
- Online Course
  - A comprehensive step-by-step video course on designing robust Laravel applications with TDD. [https://course.testdrivenlaravel.com/](https://course.testdrivenlaravel.com/)
  - From no tests to confidently tested [https://confidentlaravel.com/](https://confidentlaravel.com/)
  - Test Driven Laravel [https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGAbkfdxo1MwOS9xjG3O3z1y](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGAbkfdxo1MwOS9xjG3O3z1y)
  - Indepth Laravel [https://indepthlaravel.com/](https://indepthlaravel.com/)

## Code Quality, Code Profiler Tools

- [https://edgedesigncz.github.io/phpqa/](https://edgedesigncz.github.io/phpqa/)
- [https://phpqa.io/](https://phpqa.io/)
- [https://thevaluable.dev/code-quality-check-tools-php/](https://thevaluable.dev/code-quality-check-tools-php/)
- [https://github.com/jakzal/phpqa](https://github.com/jakzal/phpqa)
- Low-overhead sampling profiler for PHP 7 [https://github.com/adsr/phpspy](https://github.com/adsr/phpspy)
- Static Analysis [https://github.com/phan/phan](https://github.com/phan/phan)
  - DEMO [https://phan.github.io/demo/](https://phan.github.io/demo/)
- PHP Depedency DEMO [http://pdep.lerdorf.com/](http://pdep.lerdorf.com/)
- [https://github.com/sensiolabs-de/deptrac](https://github.com/sensiolabs-de/deptrac)
- PHPStan - PHP Static Analysis Tool [https://github.com/phpstan/phpstan](https://github.com/phpstan/phpstan)
- [https://psalm.dev/docs/](https://psalm.dev/docs/)
- [https://github.com/kalessil/phpinspectionsea](https://github.com/kalessil/phpinspectionsea)
- [https://infection.github.io/guide/usage.html#Using-with-PHPUnit](https://infection.github.io/guide/usage.html#Using-with-PHPUnit)

## Productivity

- Tinkerwell [https://tinkerwell.app/?ref=marcel](https://tinkerwell.app/?ref=marcel)
- VSCode Pro by Ahmad Awais [https://vscode.pro/](https://vscode.pro/)
- 7 Essential PhpStorm tips & tricks to boost your productivity [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EwL_1wbg-rQ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EwL_1wbg-rQ) 
- Laravel API Doc generator [https://laravel-apidoc-generator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/](https://laravel-apidoc-generator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). This cool package, can generate Postman collection
- Laravel Tests Generator [https://laravelshift.com/laravel-test-generator](https://laravelshift.com/laravel-test-generator)
- Sonarlint - Fix issues before they exist [https://www.sonarlint.org/](https://www.sonarlint.org/)
- Php Inspections - A Static Code Analysis tool for PHP distributed as a PhpStorm / IdeaUltimate plugin. [https://kalessil.github.io/phpinspectionsea/docs/getting-started.html](https://kalessil.github.io/phpinspectionsea/docs/getting-started.html)

## Package Development

- PHP Package Development [https://phppackagedevelopment.com/](https://phppackagedevelopment.com/)
- Laravel Package Development Tutorial by John Braun [https://laravelpackage.com](https://laravelpackage.com)
- Laravel Package Development Tutorial by Larashout [https://www.larashout.com/tag/laravel-package-development](https://www.larashout.com/tag/laravel-package-development)
- Laravel Package Development using Laravel 5.8 by Coder's Tape
  - [https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGBQ_aqz_hXDBch1aAA-lmgu](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGBQ_aqz_hXDBch1aAA-lmgu)
  - [https://coderstape.com/series/1-laravel-package-development](https://coderstape.com/series/1-laravel-package-development)
- A premium video course by Spatie, Learn how to create a Laravel package - Become the next package maestro [https://laravelpackage.training/](https://laravelpackage.training/)

## Videos

- UI Design for Developer [https://refactoringui.com/](https://refactoringui.com/)
- Getting Git [https://gettinggit.com/](https://gettinggit.com/)
- Never Write Loop Again [https://adamwathan.me/refactoring-to-collections/](https://adamwathan.me/refactoring-to-collections/)
- Official Laravel Online Course [https://laracasts.com/](https://laracasts.com/)
- Docker for PHP Developers [https://bitpress.io/docker-for-php-developers/](https://bitpress.io/docker-for-php-developers/)
- Shipping Docker [https://courses.serversforhackers.com/shipping-docker?coupon=sdholidays2019](https://courses.serversforhackers.com/shipping-docker?coupon=sdholidays2019)
- Scaling Laravel [https://courses.serversforhackers.com/scaling-laravel?coupon=slholidays2019#buy](https://courses.serversforhackers.com/scaling-laravel?coupon=slholidays2019#buy)
- MySQL Backup [https://courses.serversforhackers.com/mysql-backups?coupon=mbholidays2019](https://courses.serversforhackers.com/mysql-backups?coupon=mbholidays2019)
- Fully-Automated Deployment [https://deploy.serversforhackers.com/](https://deploy.serversforhackers.com/)
- Laravel 6 Advanced [https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGD5pN3-Y66YDtxJCYuGumFO](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpzy7FIRqpGD5pN3-Y66YDtxJCYuGumFO)
- Useful Laravel Packages [https://codewithdre.com/useful-laravel-packages](https://codewithdre.com/useful-laravel-packages)
- Advanced Laravel: 14 Topics and Links to Learn Them [https://laraveldaily.com/advanced-laravel-20-topics-and-links-to-learn-them/](https://laraveldaily.com/advanced-laravel-20-topics-and-links-to-learn-them/)
- Laravel Online Conference [https://laracon.net](https://laracon.net)
- Build a Chatbot [https://course.buildachatbot.io/?ref=landing-page](https://course.buildachatbot.io/?ref=landing-page)
- Indepth Laravel [https://indepthlaravel.com/](https://indepthlaravel.com/)

## Laravel Conferences Videos

- [Laracon EU 2013](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qkIsTtIcTBE&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoB-CIVsiQt0WU8WcYrb5eoe)
- [Laracon EU 2014](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QaIGN_cTcc8&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoCYhxlU3OJ5bOGhcKtDMkcN)
- [Laracon EU 2015](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6KsiDUFH24g&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoA9SIsuFy0UWL8PZD1G3YFZ)
- [Laracon EU 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8LdpsSJIUto&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoCMkOxqe82hOC8tgthqhHCN)
- [Laracon EU 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JPxhnRh1Rr8&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoBFZgG2juDXF6LiikpQeLx2)
- [Laracon EU 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xwsdUVd5UT8&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoC64wnqvm6v1R5dsuAV-MpS)
- [Laracon EU 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kKGGVGiq2y8&list=PLMdXHJK-lGoDhWZ6YJW5B79CDoHWZwDN1)
- [Laracon US 2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ZIuy8YcerI&list=PL-yJve--iT5o9fH_cRY0u6P751pcF59GK)
- [Laracon US 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iYCy6bo7omk&list=PL-yJve--iT5oaLQA6OI8TWLVSOBP1qhs3)
- [Laracon US 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3eyftAR5ilo&list=PL-yJve--iT5oM2LgF37VXsBb8Os4ZulIc)
- [Laracon US 2019](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL-yJve--iT5qZzp0VzYaPA7ZohLl6tSdp)
- [Laracon AU 2018 ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UyaejTqR3Tc&list=PLEkJYA4gJb7_FKspNTgrve7FUb3A1dT3y)
- [Laracon AU 2019](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A7JEfsUeey0&list=PLEkJYA4gJb78lIOKjZ0tJ9rWszT6uCTJH)

## Books

|Cover|Title|
|---|:---:|
| ![Laravel: Up & Running: A Framework for Building Modern PHP Apps](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/81Qcj1W-2CL._AC_UY218_.jpg) | Laravel: Up & Running: A Framework for Building Modern PHP Apps |
| ![Build APIs You Won't Hate: Everyone and their dog wants an API, so you should probably learn how to build them](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/41A-D5UDB+L._AC_UY218_.jpg) | Build APIs You Won't Hate: Everyone and their dog wants an API, so you should probably learn how to build them|
| ![Architecture of complex web applications: With examples in Laravel(PHP)](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/41C9jaRLYTL._AC_UY218_.jpg) | Architecture of complex web applications: With examples in Laravel(PHP) |
| ![Domain-Driven Laravel: Learn to Implement Domain-Driven Design Using Laravel](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/61jUZvCow9L._AC_UY218_.jpg) | Domain-Driven Laravel: Learn to Implement Domain-Driven Design Using Laravel |
| ![Kolaborasi Laravel dan Database PostgreSQL di Linux (Indonesian Edition)](https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/41Au7Xp2dDL._AC_UY218_.jpg) | Kolaborasi Laravel dan Database PostgreSQL di Linux (Indonesian Edition) |
| <img src="https://d2sofvawe08yqg.cloudfront.net/phptherightway/hero?1549430989]" alt="PHP The Right Way" width=200 /> | PHP: The "Right" Way, Latest update: [https://phptherightway.com/](https://phptherightway.com/)|
| <img src="https://buku-laravel-vue.com/assets/img-optimized/books/book-mockup-laravel-1-min.png.webp?6.0" alt="Laravel 6 Book Indonesia" width=250 />| Laravel v6.0 - Panduan Untuk Menjadi Fullstack Developer [https://buku-laravel-vue.com/](https://buku-laravel-vue.com/) |
| <img src="https://phpunitexplained.com/img/ebook-cover.jpg" width=220 alt="PHPUnit Explained" /> | PHPUnit Explained - Everything you need to know about the leading test framework [https://phpunitexplained.com/](https://phpunitexplained.com/) |
| <img src="https://buildanapi.com/images/build-an-api-with-laravel-wacky-studio-cover.jpg" alt="Build API with Laravel" width=200 /> | Build an API with Laravel [https://buildanapi.com/](https://buildanapi.com/)|

## Laravel Admin Tools

- Voyager: The Missing Laravel Admin [https://voyager.devdojo.com/](https://voyager.devdojo.com/)
- LaraAdmin: Admin Panel + CRM [https://laraadmin.com/](https://laraadmin.com/)
- QuickAdmin: Package and Online Generator [https://github.com/LaravelDaily/quickadmin](https://github.com/LaravelDaily/quickadmin)
- Z-song / Laravel-admin [https://github.com/z-song/laravel-admin](https://github.com/z-song/laravel-admin)
- InfyOm Laravel Generator [https://labs.infyom.com/laravelgenerator/](https://labs.infyom.com/laravelgenerator/)
- AppzCoder: CRUD Generator + Admin Panel [https://github.com/appzcoder/crud-generator](https://github.com/appzcoder/crud-generator)
- Backpack for Laravel [https://backpackforlaravel.com/](https://backpackforlaravel.com/)
- SleepingOwl Admin [https://github.com/LaravelRUS/SleepingOwlAdmin](https://github.com/LaravelRUS/SleepingOwlAdmin)
- CrudBooster [https://crudbooster.com/](https://crudbooster.com/)
- Zofe / Rapyd-Laravel [https://github.com/zofe/rapyd-laravel](https://github.com/zofe/rapyd-laravel)
- Laravel CRUD – CMS – Sximo 5 LTS ($24) [https://codecanyon.net/item/laravel-crud-cms-sximo-5-lts/11893533](https://codecanyon.net/item/laravel-crud-cms-sximo-5-lts/11893533)
- Josh – Laravel Admin Template + Front End + CRUD ($25) [https://codecanyon.net/item/josh-laravel-admin-template-front-end-crud/8754542](https://codecanyon.net/item/josh-laravel-admin-template-front-end-crud/8754542)
- Admin Architect – Administration Framework for Laravel ($29) [https://codecanyon.net/item/admin-architect-administration-framework-for-laravel/13528564](https://codecanyon.net/item/admin-architect-administration-framework-for-laravel/13528564)
- Laravel Nova ($99) [https://nova.laravel.com/](https://nova.laravel.com/)

## Awesome List

- [https://github.com/chiraggude/awesome-laravel](https://github.com/chiraggude/awesome-laravel)
- [https://github.com/unnawut/awesome-laravel](https://github.com/unnawut/awesome-laravel)
- [https://github.com/GitIndonesia/awesome-indonesia-repo#laravel](https://github.com/GitIndonesia/awesome-indonesia-repo#laravel)
- [https://github.com/ziadoz/awesome-php](https://github.com/ziadoz/awesome-php)
- [https://github.com/fukuball/Awesome-Laravel-Education](https://github.com/fukuball/Awesome-Laravel-Education)

## Tutorial, News, Inspiration

- Laravel Deep Dive [https://divinglaravel.com/](https://divinglaravel.com/)
- Made With Laravel [https://madewithlaravel.com/](https://madewithlaravel.com/)
- Laravel News [https://laravel-news.com/](https://laravel-news.com/)
- PHP-CPP A C++ library for developing PHP extensions. [http://www.php-cpp.com/](http://www.php-cpp.com/)
- Chatbot Development using PHP [https://botman.io/](https://botman.io/)
